In our application, it all starts in the index.html file in the public folder,
this is where we have the modal to fetch some user input.
If we have a look at our application, I'm referring to the modal we open with the plus icon
here. Here we fetch title and location and that of course is the data we want to post to the server.
Now clicking post doesn't do anything except for reloading the application right now,
so this is what we have to work on,
we have to connect this button, the post button with our Javascript file because this is where I then
want to listen to that request and do something.
Now this is all inside a form and that button happens to have the type submit,
so what we can do is we can simply register a submit listener on that form. Good place to do
this is of course in the feed.js file because that is the file we import in the index.html file and
which handles all the post related things, all the feed related things.
So there, I
first of all want to get access to the form,
I do this by grabbing it with document query selector and then form, accessing the form tag itself because
it's the only form tag I have on this whole page so I can get access to it like this
and then I went to register a submit listener. So I'll do this here at the bottom but of course you can do
it wherever you want,
I will simply reach out to the form,
so to this variable I just set up here which gives me access to that form and register a listener with
add event listener,
I want to listen to the submit event
and of course then execute a function as we always do, here
I get access to the event.
So this is my listener, this is the submit function then.
Now in this submit function, I first of all want to prevent the default so that the page doesn't get loaded
because the default of a submit event is the send data to the server.
Now I won't do it like this though,
I want to do it via Javascript and therefore I have to cancel the default.
Now the next step is to simply check if we have some data in the form.
So for that, I will implement an if check to see if the title and the location field here is populated
with data.
So for that, I can use the IDs
these inputs have, title has the ID title and location has the ID location and I
can get access to these elements too. So for that, I'll simply get access to them here,
title input would be document query selector
and then I set it's title, ID title though, so let's add a hashtag
and now for the location, it's basically the same just replace the name with location input for the
variable and then ID location here at the end.
Now I can check if I do have values in an if statement here,
so if title input.value because remember, title input itself is just the input element, value gives us
access to whatever the user entered
and I will trim this and check if it's equal to an empty string or if location
input value trimmed is equal to an empty string,
then I want to return because then I know that no valid data was entered and I want to ignore that click
on the post button.
In all other cases though, I of course want to continue.
Now first of all, I want to close the modal here
and I do have a function, close create post modal which will slide it down.
So I will simply use that and call close create post modal here as a first step.
Now the next thing I want to do is I want to add, as a side note here before we return, we could have thrown
an alert, please enter valid data, to give the user a hint that the data is invalid.
So after closing the create post modal though, I now want to register this background synchronization
request.
Now this is something I'll do in the next lecture.